Start Markdown documentation of the maps system (#434)
pret/pokeplatinum: docs/maps/maps.md

# Maps

This document aims to provide an overview of how the playground is constructed,
excluding BDHC, which is covered in [its own document](bdhc.md).

## Introduction

Maps are the main building block of the playground. They are defined by various
properties, which are explored throughout this document.

Maps in Pokémon Platinum are a bit of a hybrid between 2D and 3D: they retain a

> similar 2D grid system that were used in previous games, on which the terrain attributes

Reviewer: **polish**:

```suggestion
2D grid system that was used in previous games, on which the terrain attributes
```

> dictates the collision and behavior of each tile, and on which map objects (such

Reviewer: **polish**:

```suggestion
dictate the collision and behavior of each tile, and on which map objects (such
```

> as the player) are constrained, but they also have 3D elements, such as the map

Reviewer: **grammar**: This is a bit of a run-on sentence.

```suggestion
as the player) are constrained, but they also have 3D elements, such as the map
```

Author: Looks like your suggestion didn't register properly :)

Reviewer: My bad. 😅 The comment remains, though. It would be good to split it up a bit for readability.

starting point of loading maps, and is what is stored in the save data to keep
track of the player's position, alongside their X and Z coordinates.

The map header contains various identifiers to other data structures:

- the area data to load
- the map matrix in which the map is located
- the scripts and initialization scripts of the map
- the text bank that contains the messages of the map
- the music to play during day and night
- the wild encounters data
- the events data
- the map name
- the background used when displaying the map name

It also directly contains various properties:

- the weather
- the camera type
- the type of map
- the background used during battles
- whether cycling is allowed
- whether running is allowed
- whether the escape rope can be used
- whether fly can be used

### Map data

Stored in another archive inside the ROM, the map data contains the bulk of
what's needed to render a map and have a player interact with it.

The map data contains the following:

- attributes for each tile of the map, which dictates whether a tile can be
  walked on (collision data), and how the tile behaves when walked on: is it

>   tall grass, water, a trash can, etc.

Reviewer: **suggestion**: The trash-can example is interesting, because those typically cannot be walked on; I would generalize this statement to include player interactions.
